---
layout: post
title: The ARI response to Proteus
tags: Swifter Proteus SwifterLang
---
As some may have heard, that [owensd.io](http://owensd.io) 
yesterday announced to create a language he calls
["Proteus"](http://owensd.io/2015/09/03/development-starts.html).
We at the ARI are not sure why he wants to perform such a NIH stunt and compete
with the best Objective-C replacement available
<span style="color: #999">(not)</span>:
[Swifter](http://swifter-lang.org/).

The response of the Always Right Institute to this is simple:
[Go](http://golang.org) ahead David, go give it a try!
Proteus will be all wrong and [Swifter](http://swifter-lang.org/)
will be always right.
["Old Man of the Sea"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_Man_of_the_Sea),
who would want to program in something 'old'?

### What is wrong with Proteus - a thorough analysis
TL;DR: **Everything**

As a starter it is not being done by the Always Right Institute. How could it
possibly perform at 1337 speed? Or be right?

> I’ve created a Patreon if you feel keen to supporting the development.

Got it all wrong. With programming languages it works the other way
around. The language developer has to pay the poor people trying to use his
language
(unless she owns the market and can play with devs as she pleases - like
 letting C++ compiler writers go wild).

> ... simple: create a modern-day C language ...

Excuse me? Never use simple and C in a single sentence, modern-day or not.
This is plain offensive towards real developers who spent years to understand
why it's <nobr>`NSString *title`</nobr>, not <nobr>`NSString* title`</nobr>.
Or why source code wider than 78 bytes tends to crash unexpectedly.

> I’ll be writing the parser using Swift ...

Of course you are trying to get it right by
[stealing ideas]({% post_url 2015-06-25-swiftercompiler %})
from the excellent Swifter community. That won't help, and it is just 
*not right*.

> ... expect to see a lot of interesting tangential posts comparing the two
> languages.

After an intense discussion, we at the ARI decided to agree on this one.
There are going to be a lot of posts comparing Swifter and Swift.
And we know who is right.

> Eventually, the project will be completely open-sourced.

Well, Swifter got a headstart. **All** of the components
<span style="color: #999">(written)</span>
got released as open-source already.

> So, I expect we’ll see some interesting Swift-to-LLVM C API challenges along
> the way.

Anyone calling those challenges 'interesting' haz no idea about LLVM.

*Finally*: Proteus doesn't even have a logo.

### Summary

We clearly demonstrated this is all **wrong**. Swifter is alright. Word!

**But** - as usual, we went deep on this and had our team of American scientists
review Swifter as well as Proteus. They confirmed our findings.

Mr. Owens, you should clearly tag your project as 'an experiment'. E.g. adding
a sentence like 'This is an experiment' to your Proteus posts.

## Swifter

We at the ARI invite everyone to ignore look-a-likes and take a sip of right
by trying
[Swifter](http://swifter-lang.org/)<span style="color: #999">, not</span>.

As written in "Thousand and One Nights":

> Swifter, after having got the Old Man drunk with wine, was able to shake him
> off and kill him.

P.S.: Did we mention that other Swifter clone, [eero](http://eerolanguage.org)?
Same thing. Doomed to #fail.
No, wait:

> Eero is no longer being maintained by its original author.

### Looking for a job?

Be sure to learn Swifter, it is the language of the future!
